So we've created the Dow, so we still looking at the lower part of this entire architecture here structure.
So now we are going to instantiate or create the actual class that will implement or rather the abstract
class in this case that will be implementing our room database.
But there is such room there based class that is out there, which will allow us to then create the
database or at least set up the database entities and all the things that we need.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's get rid of that for now favored as well.
And this too.
So let's go back to our project and it's still inside of our data here.
I'm going to create a new file codling file.
This is going to be an abstract class, but I don't have access to an abstract class.
I don't think here.
So it's OK.
I'm just going to use the interface.
I'm going to change that.
So let's call this weather database section.
And I said, it's going to be an abstract class one change that right away from here and in this case
here.
And so this what he does.
Well, first of all, this will.
So this weather data, so our database here is going to inherit from room database surveys.
Of course, the class that has all the things that we need in order to create the actual at least to
set up the structure, the form database structure, right?
This structure here, which is included around with everything.
OK.
So we need to also make sure that the compiler will know what this is all about, and once a database
like this, remember it's going to be Android X Room database.
And here is where we set up the skeleton of our database, which will create in a bit.
So in this case, here we need to pass the entities entities again or just tables.
Notice it says entities in its array or list of entities classes.
Right?
Because in most databases, you usually have more than one entity.
So that's why allows us to pass a list.
So what say entities?
Right?
In this case, the list is put inside of square brackets like this, and we will have two tables.
But for now, we're just talking about one, which is favorites.
So I'm going to say favorite, I would go and I'm going to make sure that it's a class that we what
we are calling, right?
That's what we are setting up.
And then when need passed the version of Oracle base or just a number, so one, it's fine.
And I'm going to say export schema falls like this.
OK, forget.
So now we're saying whenever this is called, it's going to create an actual he's going to have the
entity, all the entities, all the information, all the metadata that will be needed to create those
tables in this case, just one table for now.
All right.
And, of course, an abstract class that means it also has to have abstract functions.
In this case, we're going to have one.
This abstract function.
It's going to be called whether Dow, which in this case is going to extend our weather now.
So the idea is that this is going to be something that will need to be implemented at the class level
when we call this function.
It's going to return whether Dow, which is what we created earlier and whether Dow will know how to
access the database, the SEC will light, meaning it will know how to.
Cried or perform all the operations in our secret like database.
Oh.
Very good.
So that's what reconstructing here.
So that's it for our weather database, right?
So we created this structure.
It's set up.
Now we haven't created the database yet.
How do we create a database?
No different ways now because we are using dependency injection here.
We are going to still use dependent injection, which means we're going to use the class that we created
earlier.
If you go back to die here, the app module.
Remember, this is where we earlier use for weather API.
This is where we created this provider function per se that provides this weather API, which creates
a retrofit instance that in this case, we pass the weather API class to do all the magic in the background.
We don't need to really worry too much about so that we are able to get data from the internet.
So again, we're going to do the same thing here.
Number one, we need a way for us to have a provider for our Dow because our Dow is very important.
As you will see as if illustrative here, the Dow is what allows us to access the data directly, which
is encapsulated in our group database.
So we need to provide that as well through our app module.
So I'm going to say at first of all, we make sure there's a singleton like that and then it's going
to be providers would provide something right.
And was a fun provide.
Weather now.
So its function here, first of all, is going to return a weather Dow type.
All right.
And then we're just going to go ahead and see whether Dow.
But how do I get that weather down?
Well, we need to pass around here saying weather actually and to pass a weather database, you should
say, right when the database type and inside of this, I put a new line.
This is where I'm going to use our weather database and invoke the weather now to get the actual Dow.
So what are we doing here, which I think when provide weather that was called is just going to go ahead
and get the Dow object, which incidentally, will allow us to go around and get heat data.
You know, a single light entities or tables.
All right.
Again, we're not going to be using this directly, this is for our dependency injection, as you will
see later.
Very good.
And next here, what I'm going to do is we need to create or provide the actual database.
This is where we create the actual everybody.
So we created this skeleton of what needs all the metadata that it's needed to create a database.
Now we need to create the actual database and we're going to do all in our app module because that's
the setup we have for dependency injection and so forth.
OK.
So the same thing at Singleton.
And then it provides like this and then fine provide a notice to naming.
It's very important.
This is not random.
So I'm using to provide and then say app database so that we know if we need to get back here, what's
going on?
All right.
So this will return a weather DAO.
So this so this will return a weather database, obviously.
And I said it to something before I even said it to something or to pass a few things you see in order
for us to instantiate Arabs, we need an application context.
So an application context to just think of one of those classes that have access to everything in our
project in an Android project like this name plays a context or has context of everything from resources
from other classes around the realm, around the tree of everything that composes everything that that
constructs an actual Android app.
So we need that context in order to pass it around into our room database builder, as you will see
in a second.
So how do we do that?
Well, I can say at application context, this is beautiful because this comes from hilt dagger hilt.
All right.
And it's going to be context, application, context like this.
Closes down, so we have more space.
So now these provide apt, anybody can provide a weather database.
What do we do?
Well, they said, I'm going to say room, look at that room there.
Like this database builder, right?
How do we build a database?
Well, they need to pass the context.
We've got that next.
We need to pass the actual class that we need to model after in order to create the actual air base,
which is, yes, the weather database.
Remember?
And I'm just going to get the class the wrong class per say, and we need to pass the name for our database.
This casing was called this.
Whether that a base like that is a string could be anything.
All right.
We're not done yet, because then I'm going to go and invoke a few other functions.
First of all, I'm going to call this fall back to destructive migration.
It's just for migration stuff that we don't need to care about this point.
It's fine.
And then we're just called built to build in this case, our.
Database.
It looks like a context is having a problem that because I'm passing an application context, I just
have to pass the actual Android context like that, that's what's needed.
There we go.
And there we have it.
So all of this is happening inside of a module.
Remember, we're not going to directly invoke these functions there.
This is for hilts and dagger and held so that we can get this, all of these provided to us when we
need them via injection dependency injection.
All right.
So that's it, really.
So now we've pretty much done with all of this.
We've created this Dow Access Data Access object before we created that one entity.
There's one more we're going to create later, but that's fine.
And we've created this structure of our own database, as you saw earlier with our database.
And then we even were able to use the app module from our dependency injection with dagger and hilt
to actually instantiate that database, as well as our DAO to have those singletons whenever we need
them, as you will see in a second.
So now we're going to move up and create, of course, a repository because we need a repository that
will connect to our DAO reflected now so we can get that information right to get or update or delete
to do the operations.
All right.
So let's go to do that.
Let's go ahead and do that.
All right.
Creating a process here.
So let's go back to our project, and what I'm going to do is inside of a repository.
We already have this where the repository this is for our other kind of data like, but we're going
to do something else now.
In fact, if we wanted to do this, we could have put everything inside of this one repository.
Right.
But I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to put in a different repository.
But the whole idea is that a repository is the single source of truth for all app data, but just for
simplicity.
I'm going to separate the concerns a little bit and create a new repository instead of a repository
package.
So let's go ahead and say new.
Call this weather DB repository.
That.
And because it's just a repository, you notice, we don't need to add anything in terms of annotation
and so forth.
However, what we're going to do, we need to inject what we need.
We need the Dow stocks to inject constructeur.
I'm going to put here our private foul weather Dow.
Like this?
Now let's look at the picture again.
That's exactly what we need because this Dow is the one interface that allows us to access our skylight.
So we need to inject it in our repository in order to be able to do so.
Injection, we're not recreating or in this case, we are not instantiating a new object.
We are injecting it.
Very cool.
So now inside here I can do all sort of things right.
I can do what we want to do in this case, which is to mirror what we've done with Dow.
If you remember correctly in our Dow, we have all these functions, so we're going to mirror that.
This is where we actually are going to get that information and so forth.
So I'm going to say fun.
This start with get favorites and usually the names are similar just to mirror everything.
And it's going to be a flow.
That's the types that we are going to wrap this around.
Caitlin Cortines Flow.
Make sure that's it.
A list of favorites object like that.
And we're going to say that to what?
Well, we're going to use whether Dow Dot and get favorites.
Look, how convenient is it?
So now when we use our weather DB repository, we know we have access to Dow, which is great because
we need that.
And so we create a function that returns a list of my favorites and wrapped into flow, just a type
like a sequential type, courtin and all that great stuff.
And we call the weather Dow again.
Remember, we are accessing through our Dow.
That's the whole objective, right?
Data access, object access object.
OK, through our Dow, we get favorites.
And then.
OK, we can continue here, I'm going to create another function, let's say, insert favorite.
So in sort of favor, we need a favorite object.
Of course.
And then I'm going to also use Dow, of course, and then insert and insert that favorite object.
I can just pass favored like this.
Let's see.
Right, I need to make this.
Suspend.
There we go.
Right.
It's our favorite, impassive favorite.
You get the gist, I guess, suspend function, let's say.
Update favorite, which was not going to use, but it's OK.
The passive favorite object we want to update.
And then we call whether that update favorite and past that favorite look of that.
All right, I can suspend again.
Let's see.
So delete all favorites in this case, I don't have to do much, but just saying whether dial, delete
old favorites and there we go again, suspend function, let's say you want to delete one favorite,
which we're going to use actually delete favorite.
We passed the favorite object I want to delete, and we call whether Dow.
Delete a favorite and pass that favor.
And again, just because I can do the get save by I.D., which is going to be a city.
Think that's just a strain, and I'm going to expect a favorite type in this case, and we're going
to set all of that weather down that gets by faith or faith by it.
That is impasse the city.
And there you have it.
So now again, I think this helps, we've created the repository.
So the next thing we need to do, it's going to be our view model, which in turn will.
Have repository as its dependency injection dependency there, so that we can then use the repository
and say, get favorites and then return old favorites in certain past favorite and so forth.
OK.
So as you see, this is a structure that is simpler to follow.
I hope you can see how simple this is and is simpler to also digest.
I think once you pull things into separate classes into a cluster of classes and you understand, OK,
this level is this, and then you have this level, that level and that level, this hierarchy is really
important.
If so, if you're a beginner and this may seem like, oh my gosh, this is just too much to bear, but
remember doing this even though it takes a little bit of time, you have to think a little bit about
things about if you do like this than you doing it the right way.
And that's what we want to do when it comes to software development.
OK, there we go.
So now we're done with our weather repository.
Next, we're getting close.
Ladies and gentlemen, next, we are going to move on to the model where we're going to deal with holding
all the data needed for our user interface in this case, our convertibles.
We're getting there, and I'll see you next.